- [Instructor] Terraform is a tool that uses
a GitOps approach to provision infrastructure.
Using Terraform, we can provision infrastructure
like managed Kubernetes clusters and virtual machines
within major cloud platforms.
The tool fits well with GitOps because it uses
a declarative language known as HashiCorp
configuration language.
We can use this language to describe the desired state
of our systems infrastructure.
Let's take a peek at how Terraform works at a high level.
When using Terraform, the systems infrastructure
is described with Terraform configuration files
that are placed inside of a Terraform workspace.
Within the files, declarative infrastructure code
defines the resources that represent infrastructure objects
to provision inside of the cloud platform.
Following GitOps principles,
these files should be stored in Git because they represent
the desired state of the systems infrastructure.
To achieve the desired state,
these configuration files are applied
using the Terraform command line interface.
The CLI uses Terraform plugins made available
by major cloud providers to provision infrastructure
through the cloud platforms public API.
Terraform has providers that allow you to provision
resources in AWS, Azure, GCP, and even private clouds.
Once the resources are provisioned on the cloud platform,
Terraform outputs, a TF state file that contains details
about the newly created resources.
Let's take a closer look at the Terraform files
that contain the declarative infrastructure configuration.
These files have a TF extension
and they use adjacent like syntax
that contains two major constructs, blocks and arguments.
Blocks are containers that represent the configuration
of an object like a resource.
Each block must have a type and they can optionally define
one or more labels.
Here, it's important to note that a provider like Azure
can override some of the default behavior for a block.
So in this instance, the Azure provider
causes the blocks labels to have special meaning
for provisioning infrastructure into that cloud platform.
Okay. So moving on, within a block,
we'll find one or more arguments.
Arguments are used to assign a value to an identifier
which manages some aspect of the resources configuration.
We can also create variables inside of our HCL.
A variable is defined within a TF file.
Then it's assigned a value using either the command line
or an environment variable or a TF vars file,
which you can see in our example.
To use a variable, just use the prefix vars
within the declarative configuration
and then use dot notation to reference the variable name.
So that's a quick look at Terraform.
It can be used in many ways to support GitOps workflows,
such as account provisioning
and Git repository provisioning.
We'll use it in the more traditional sense
to provision infrastructure,
when we bootstrap the Kubernetes cluster
for our GitOps operations.